Dear madam/sir, (Hiring manager: Filipa Esteves Matos)

<!-- Opening statement -->
With this letter I would like to express my interest in the Summer AI
Research Internship at Unbabel. I believe that I provide the right
skills to make this internship a success, and I hope that by the end of
this letter you will think so too.

Unbabel is exactly the kind of company I want to work for. Unbabel
accepts the challenge of making state of the art research in natural
language processing work in a real world setting. I find that inspiring.
The internship was brought to my attention by my thesis supervisor
Wilker Aziz, who was so very kind to mention me to his academic
collaborator, Andre Martins. This connection moreover cemented my belief
that Unbabel has a unique intersection with the research community. This
intersection is precisely where I like to see myself work in the future.

<!-- My background -->
Currently I am writing a master's thesis under supervision of Wilker
Aziz in which I investigate the question: What are effective ways of
incorporating syntactic structure into neural language models? My
research mixes linguistically informed questions, mathematically and
computationally elegant solutions, and rigorous targeted evaluation.
This is precisely the research that I enjoy and that I and excel at.

<!-- I used the period in the bachelor of mathematics to transition into the more formal work I do now, and acquired a deep interest in mathematics in the process. In the master's program I developed an interest in computer science from a theoretical viewpoint, and followed courses on computational complexity, combinatorics, information theory and quantum computing. I rejoined with my interest in language when I started learning about natural language processing and found a home for my interest in mathematics in courses on machine learning. -->
My attached CV shows that I have a diverse academic background. Moving
between programs has taught me how to adapt quickly, work hard, and see
the larger picture. I have learned a lot from working on individual
projects. These projects provide evidence that I have the grit to delve
deep and that I grasp the technical details. I strive to make these
projects well-organized, well-documented and self-contained. I
increasingly learn how important such rigor is in promoting transparency
and reproducibility of research.

<!-- Examples of this are projects on graph-based and transition-based dependency parsing with various learning algorithms, on latent dirchlet allocation with different inference methods, and on variational autoencoders with discrete latent variables. I have also worked on a number of didactic projects that I created with teaching in mind, on such topics as parsing, (neural) language models, and word embeddings.  -->
<!-- Teaching -->
<!-- Besides research, I also really enjoy teaching. In 2017 I had the amazing opportunity to teach a group of students at the master level in a course-long research project. I did this almost entirely by myself; a bold initiative from my side that was rewarded with great satisfaction and immense experience. -->
<!-- Closing statement -->
Now that I am almost finished with my studies, I am excited to learn how
the research that I participate in translates into real-world
applications. I believe that Unbabel is an outstanding place to
experience this first-hand, and I look forward to use my skills to
contribute to your work. I hope this letter has conveyed to you my
excitement for the position, and that I have convinced you that I am the
applicant you are looking for. I look forward to hearing from you.

Kind regards, Daan van Stigt
